Leo Moran
10/04/2024


Questions

SIMPLE COMMUNICATION SCENARIO
1. Alice wants to send Bob a long message, and she doesn't want Eve to be able to read it. 
   Assume for this scenario that AITM is impossible.

2. Alice wants to send Bob a long message. She doesn't want Mal to be able to modify the 
   message without Bob detecting the change.

3. Alice wants to send Bob a long message (in this case, it's a signed contract between 
   AliceCom and BobCom), she doesn't want Eve to be able to read it, and she wants Bob to 
   have confidence that it was Alice who sent the message. Assume for this scenario that 
   AITM is impossible.

QUESTIONS ABOUT BREAKING SECURITY
4. Consider a scenario where Alice and Bob have been in contract negotiations and sharing 
   documents electronically along the way. Suppose Bob sues Alice for breach of contract 
   and presents as evidence the digitally signed contract (C || Sig) and Alice's public key 
   P_A. Here, C contains some indication that Alice has agreed to the contract—e.g., if C 
   is a PDF file containing an image of Alice's handwritten signature. Sig, on the other 
   hand is a digital signature, as described at 9:23 or so of the Cryptographic Hash 
   Functions video.
   (https://carleton.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Viewer.aspx?id=35b32c43-7928-4368-8e14-ad090112827a)

5. or this scenario, suppose the assumption that everybody has everybody else's correct 
   public keys is no longer true. Instead, suppose we now have a certificate authority CA, 
   and that everybody has the correct P_CA (i.e. the certificate authority's key). Suppose 
   further that Bob sent his public key P_B to CA, and that CA then delivered to Bob this 
   certificate:
Cert_B = "bob.com" || P_B || Sig_CA
   In terms of P_CA, S_CA, H, E, etc., of what would Sig_CA consist? That is, show the 
   formula CA would use to compute Sig_CA.

6. Bob now has the certificate Cert_B from the previous question. During a communication, 
   Bob sends Alice Cert_B. Is that enough for Alice to believe she's talking to Bob? 
   (Hint: no.) What could Alice and Bob do to convince Alice that Bob has the S_B that goes 
   with the P_B in Cert_B?

7. Finally, list at least two ways the certificate-based trust system from the previous two 
   questions could be subverted, allowing Mal to convince Alice that Mal is Bob.

Answers
1. Alice and Bob can make use of AES(K, M) to send their encrypted messages, but in 
   order to get their keys, they can use Diffie-Hellman to agree on a shared secret to form 
   the key k. By using Diffie-Hellman, Alice and Bob are able to share a secret without Eve 
   being able to understand, using this key to then later encrypt their messages further 
   prevents Eve from being able to understand what they are sending to each other.

2. Alice and Bob can make use of public and secret key pair and Alice sends Bob E(P_B, k_1), 
   then Bob will send E(P_A, K_2). Using what they sent each other, they can both form a 
   concatenation of the two keys to make the final key (H(k_1 || k_2) = K) before continuing 
   with AES to encrypt their messages. By using the public keys of each other to encrypt 
   their own half of the key, it makes it difficult for someone like Mal to perform an 
   Adversary-In-The-Middle (AITM) attack as they would not have the secret key to decrypt the 
   half-keys made using Alice and Bob's public key. 
   

3. Alice and Bob can make use of digital signatures since Eve can only watch from the 
   sidelines and not act like either Alice or Bob with a fake public key. Alice can have both 
   a secret and public key (S_A, P_A) where Bob is aware of the public key, Alice can then 
   form a document (D) using the hash of their message (D = H(M)), then Alice can form a 
   personal signature (Sig), encrypting the document with their secret password 
   (Sig = E(S_A, D)). FInally, before sending the message to Bob, Alice would concatenate 
   the original message with their signature (M || Sig). Then Bob can make use of a key that 
   Alice and Bob would have shared to split the message and signature. Then using P_A to 
   decrypt Sig in order to get the original copy of the document (E(P_A, Sig) = D^1), which 
   should match with the original message after being put through a hash function 
   (D^1 = H(M)).

4. The three claims Alice can make are "Someone else had sent a modified contract to Bob," 
   "Bob themself had modified the contract," "Bob is not using the right public key." The 
   first claim is the weakest since if a person such as Mal were to modify the document, 
   they would need to perform an AITM attack in order to gain access to the messages Alice 
   and Bob are sending each other, but since Mal has neither Alice's or Bob's secret keys, 
   Mal will not be able to decrypt the first few messages needed to form the keys of the 
   encryption, preventing them from modifying the document. The second claim has more ground 
   since Bob doesn't have to worry about the keys since they already formed the shared key 
   with Alice. However, in order for Bob to modify or fabricate a document Alice sent, Bob 
   would also need the signature to replicate the changes within its document. But without 
   Alice's secret key, Bob would not be able to form a new signature and be forced 
   to use an old one, which will be debunked once anyone tries to compare the hash of the 
   document with the decrypted signature. The third option seems the most plausable since 
   Bob cannot be sure if they got the right public key, and therefore unable to determine if 
   the document is correct. This outcome doesn't really solve where the document came from, 
   unless Bob had made it or some very particular data corruption occured during the sending, 
   of the file, and it would also require that the fake public key had managed to somehow 
   provide a false positive with the hashed message. Following this logic the public key 
   and document can very well be false, however the digital signature cannot be so easily 
   faked as it would require Alice's secret key to create, then through the use of Alice's 
   actual public key this claim can also be debunked. While this claim is possible, it does 
   not appear likely without some form of tampering with both the keys and the document, 
   furthermore why would Bob attempt to pass such tampering if they could not have access to
   a new signature as well? 
   Another claim that Alice can make is that "I never once spoke with Bob," this would mean 
   that Bob was never talking with Alice in the first place, but instead with an imposter 
   who provided a false public key. This would mean that the negotiations were all a trick 
   and that the signed document was also part of the lie. This can be very possible and Bob 
   could also have been aware of the imposter and worked with them to form this court case. 
   But since this scenario has Alice and Bob in negotiations, this claim would not hold as 
   Alice's computer would have the messages and keys saved, proving that they are the one 
   who talked with Bob.

5. The signature of the certificate authority CA would consist of the encryption of Bob's 
   data through the use of CA's secret key (Sig_CA = E(S_CA, H(data))), and Bob's data 
   would consist of Bob's identity ("bob.com"), and their public key (P(B)). The data can 
   also include orther types of information such as the date of it's creation, an expiration 
   date, or anything else that would be relevant to have.

6. Alice would need to validate the certificate from Bob through the use of by splitting the 
   data from the certificate from the signature, through and already agreed upon method, 
   then they would need to decrypt the message using the CA's public key (P_CA) which will 
   equal to Bob's data when hashed since using a public key to encrypt a message that was 
   already encrypted by the public key negates the encryptions and returns the original 
   message albeit still hashed (E(P_CA, Sig.) = E(P_CA, E(S_CA, H(data))) = H(data)).

7. Mal could be the one to forge their own certificate using Bob's identity and public key. 
   Mal could also try to perform an AITM attack between Bob and CA to take a copy of the 
   certification and use it for personal means.