Leo Moran
10/15/2024

Assignment Prompts

The goal of this assignment is to get you to think seriously about the ethics of a 
tricky situation. To give some structure to your analysis, I'd like you to organize 
your report around the following questions.

A. Identify the main ethical question or questions faced by the main character 
   ("you") in the scenario. This will certainly include "what should you do?", but 
   there may be other interesting questions to consider.

B. For each stakeholder (or category of stakeholders) in the scenario, identify the 
   stakeholder's relevant rights.

C. List any information missing from the scenario that you would like to have to 
   help you make better choices.

D. Describe your possible actions, and discuss the likely consequences of those 
   actions.

E. Discuss whether the ACM Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct offers any 
   relevant guidance.

F. Describe and justify your recommended action, as well as your answers to any 
   other questions you presented in part A.

Keep your write-up concise but detailed. At a rough guess, I'd expect your write-up 
to take 2-3 pages.


Scenario #1: responsible reporting of security vulnerabilities
You have discovered a bug in the InstaToonz music-sharing app. This bug is a nasty 
one that would allow an attacker to read the contents of all the private InstaToonz 
direct messages for anyone who has ever posted a public InstaToonz message. This bug 
threatens the privacy of hundreds of millions of InstaToonz users.

You want to report this bug (Coordinated Vulnerability Disclosure) to InstaToonz, 
Inc. to protect their customers, but you know that the last time somebody reported a 
security bug to them privately, InstaToonz sued the bug-reporter in North Carolina 
and also called in the FBI, causing the person significant hassle and expense. The 
case was briefly a cause célèbre in the tech world, with calls for boycotts and state 
and Congressional action. Eventually, after a fair amount of sabre-rattling, 
InstaToonz dropped the suit. But at the same time, they released a statement 
articulating their belief that all security researchers (which InstaToonz always put 
inside scare quotes) are engaging in attempted thievery of trade secrets. After a 
brief investigation upon being first contacted by InstaToonz, the FBI declined to 
pursue the matter further. InstaToonz has refused all demands that they establish a 
bug bounty program (A deal offered by the owner of a website/software where people 
can gain recognition and compensation for reporting bugs within their system).

This scenario has an interesting legal twist if it occurs in the US. If you choose 
to analyze this scenario, take into account in your analysis two possible options:


* Suppose the bug involves the encryption and copy-protection of the music shared by 
   InstaToonz users. You are not a lawyer, but you're concerned that your uncovering of 
   this bug may put you in violation of Section 1201 of the Digital Millennium 
   Copyright Act.

* Suppose the bug does not involve encryption or copy-protection.

Answers

Scenario #1
A. The main dilemma regarding this scenario is that I, an ethical hacker, have 
   spotted a bug within InstaToonz’s app that can lead to a breach in privacy for all 
   app users who have made a public post, but to report such a bug would mean to risk 
   facing legal issues. Due to InstaToonz’s poor history regarding people privately 
   reporting bug reports to them and their negative views on white hat hackers, it is 
   likely that they will attempt to sue me. Following the case where the bug does not 
   involve encryption or copy-protection, then the company will drop the suit, but I 
   would have still suffered the cost both economically and physically. But if 
   encryption is involved and we are located within the united states, then the suit 
   will hold some ground and can be followed through. It would be the right thing to 
   report this bug regardless of the consequences to ensure the security of the users, 
   but it’s important to recognize that doing so may prevent me from helping others in 
   the future. Furthermore, it is possible that the organization is already aware of 
   the bug and is in the process of dealing with it in a private manner.

B. For the user’s, they should have the right to deliver messages privately, but 
   there isn’t much beside that as the organization is not required to notify their 
   user of such a bug until after it has been dealt with. For the organization, under 
   the pretext of there being no encryption or copy-protection, they do not have the 
   right to fully sue me for stealing trade secrets as a public announcement is not 
   legally binding. In the case of there being encryption or copy-protection, the 
   organization has the right to sue me on the grounds of Section 1201(a)(3) where I 
   would be attempting to “circumvent a technological measure” by decrypting their 
   encryptions using the bug.

C. What rights do I have as an ethical hacker that will permit me to report such a 
   bug without any concerns of repercussions? Is the organization responsible for 
   InstaToonz aware of such a bug? If the organization is currently working on the bug 
   but has not shut down their services while doing such works, would that be legally 
   viable as they are risking the privacy of their user by not bringing it down until 
   the issue is resolved? Does InstaToonz have a security team, and if so, do they have 
   someone I can direct towards the bug as a part of their job while protecting my own 
   well being? Is there any authorities that I can present this bug to that can handle 
   the situation? Finally, if I were to point out the smaller parts of the bug and not 
   make the correlation to how it affects encryptions, will they still be able to sue 
   me as a part of the Anti-Circumvention Clauses?

D. I can report the bug regardless, and the organization can sue me, which will then 
   lead to legal action and require me to lose money either by not being able to work 
   or by having to afford a lawyer. Then if encryption was involved and the lawsuit 
   lands, I will be suffering a greater cost to myself, as well as the possiblility of 
   jail time, preventing me from being able to help anyone else during my sentence. The 
   other option, is that I do nothing and move one with my life, reporting bugs to 
   other organizations. This corse of action however can lead to black hat hackers 
   secretly viewing and recording the private messages of the app’s users and selling 
   off the data. It could take months before the organization can become aware of such 
   a bug existing, patches it, and never be aware of the date being used of their 
   users. The alternative course of action would be that some online troll decides to 
   publish all of the private messages on a public site and exposing all of the 
   affected users, and the organization rushes to put a stop to it as they will most 
   undoubtedly lose an immense amount of their userbase. Either outcome for doing 
   nothing will end up harming both the organization and it’s users, but to report such 
   a bug will instead harm only myself.

E. Following the ACM Code of Ethics, it reminds me of the added importance of 
   avoiding negative consequences, especially when it comes to system risks and to 
   resist against rules that you believe causes harm. The code has also provided me a 
   means of reporting the issue while protecting myself through the act of whistle 
   blowing, however that does require me to provide evidence of the supervisors for the 
   organization’s mismanagement of the bug.

F. I would undergo with reporting the issue through whistle blowing, claiming how 
   InstaToonz’s negative behavior toward the private reportings of bugs to be a form of 
   mismanagement that endangers the privacy of their users. Then, regardless of whether 
   they are in the process of handling the bug or not, the organization must take full 
   responsibility for their irresponsible actions, and the privacy of the users shall 
   remain secure.

